Contents
--------

I. Bugs in the MS game logic emulation
II. Bugs in the Lynx game logic emulation
III. Other bugs and misfeatures
IV. General non-bugs

I. Bugs in the MS game logic emulation
--------------------------------------

1. The clone machine "boss" is not set correctly when more than one
   clone machine is activated simultaneously. (You can see this rather
   dramatically by playing MONSTER LAB (45).) Actually, I know a way
   to fix this bug, but it requires that dead creatures not be removed
   from the creature list. This means that the list can grow
   arbitrarily large (at least on an untimed level), which seems rather
   undesirable. I seriously doubt chips.exe does this.

2. A trapped creature's "controller" is not always set correctly on
   levels where one or more clones have died. This is a secondary
   effect of the previous bug (and there are probably others as
   well). Same potential fix, same reason for not wanting to use it.

2. "Slide delay" is not emulated. At all. So far my attempts at doing
   so have given rather poor results.

3. Chips move's are "quantized" so as to occur exactly on 1/20-second
   intervals, rather than occuring the moment a key event is
   received. I believe that this difference does not actually affect
   game play (though I could well be wrong), but it definitely does
   affect how the game appears when Chip makes two moves in a single
   interval.

4. A creature unable to leave a clone machine in its chosen direction
   can exit at any later time that the direction opens up. In the MS
   game, I believe there is an upper limit to this, or at least some
   kind of restriction. I need more data about this.

5. When a tank is temporarily prevented from moving, it will not move
   again in that direction (until a blue button is pressed). I suspect
   that in the MS game this is not always true, but I don't know what
   the rule is.

6. When Chip is on solid ground, and pushes a block that is on ice,
   Chip follows the block. This is wrong; in the MS game, Chip bounces
   back. I'm pretty sure this is because the block doesn't start
   moving right away, as it is on the slip list, causing it to move on
   the following tick.

7. There are numerous odd cases where blocks do not behave quite
   correctly. In the MS game, blocks are objects instead of creatures,
   and thus have different bases for their treatment. I've begun to
   lay a foundation for treating blocks more like objects in the MS
   ruleset, and this needs to be continued.

8. There is some weird behavior that occurs with moves that involve
   multiple levels of side effects (e.g., Chip moves towards a block
   which causes it to be pushed through a teleport and land on a red
   button which clones a tank that comes out where the block
   originally rested). This needs to be investigated further to
   discern the overall patterns.

II. Bugs in the Lynx game logic emulation
-----------------------------------------

1. The pattern of "clone boosting" is not the same as the Lynx game.
   It's hard to find examples that clearly show this; I have only one.
   Play ICE HOUSE (102) on the Lynx. After landing safely on the red
   button, step right to block off the teeth clones. Stay there. When
   the clock reads 130 seconds or so, there will be a fireball clone
   that is boosted. It will cross the ice just before a glider comes
   through, and the glider will continue on its way past the red
   button. However, in the emuluator, the fireball clone is not
   boosted. As a result, it is still squarely on the ice when the
   glider arrives, and the latter bounces off and retreats. The
   boosting pattern is governed by how slots in the creature list come
   back up for reuse after a creature has been killed. Clearly, the
   emulator is not using the same algorithm as the Lynx game.
   Unfortunately, it's a tedious business to collect any amount of
   data on this that would be necessary to start finding patterns, and
   there are few levels that have the necessary elements for such
   investigation. So this one is still up in the air.

III. Other bugs and misfeatures
-------------------------------

None are known to me at present. I'm sure that will change once other
people start playing with it.

IV. General non-bugs
--------------------

[I expect that some intentional features of the program will strike
other people as perhaps being bugs. This section will be used to list
these non-bugs.]

1. The MS emulation should have an option for doing smooth scrolling.

   The MS ruleset makes it impossible to have sensible smooth
   scrolling. Something like boosting is an obvious example of why
   this can't work. There is no good way to spread Chip's movement out
   in time when the interval before Chip can make another move can
   vary all the way down to zero.

